=head1 Making Command Gears

'Command' gears are gears which run external commands.  You can use a command
gears as a data L<source|Sprog::Gear::CommandIn>, a 
L<filter|Sprog::Gear::CommandFilter>, or to L<output|Sprog::Gear::CommandOut>
results.

The simplest way to use command gears is to drag one of the 'Run Command' gears
from the palette and then use the gear properties dialog to enter the command
name and options.

If you find yourself using the same command in more than one machine, then you
might like to make your own gear and add it to the palette.  Not only is this
possible, it's very easy.

Before you start, you must have a 'Personal Gear Folder' set up.  This is simply
a place to store the gear definitions.  You can set one up using 
L<preferences|Sprog::help::preferences>.

=head2 Step 1: Configure Your Gear

If you're already using a 'Run Command' gear in your machine then you've
completed this step.  If not, drag a Run Command gear into your machine and
configure the command to do what you want.

=head2 Step 2: Add the Gear to The Palette

Right click on the command gear you want to save and select 'Make Command Gear'.
This will pop up a dialog for you to specify how you want the gear to be saved:

=over 4

=item Title

The title is what will appear in the palette and on the gear when you drag it
into a machine.  You must give your gear a title and you probably don't want
to use the title of a gear that already exists.  This is the only box that
you really have to fill in.

=item Command

This box should be filled out for you already.  You can edit it if you want to.

=item Keywords

Keywords are used when searching for gears in the palette.  You don't have to
add keywords, but it might be necessary if you can't fit all the important
information into the title.

=item File name

This box should be filled out for you already but you can edit it if you want
to.  Don't use the same filename as another gear in your personal gear folder
or you'll overwrite it (you will be warned first though).

=back

When you're happy with the information you've entered, press B<Save> and
your gear will be added to the palette.

=head2 Editing a Custom Command Gear

Once you've added a command gear to the palette you can edit it by right
clicking on the gear and selecting 'Edit Command Gear'.  Your changes will be
reflected in all machines that use the gear.

You can also copy a custom command gear by editing it and saving it to a
different filename.

To remove the gear from the palette (and delete it from your Personal Gear
Folder), right click on the gear in the palette and select 'Delete Command
Gear'.

=head2 Sharing Custom Command Gears

If you want to share your custom command gears with someone else, simply give
them the files from your personal gear folder.  Once they've saved the files in
their personal gear folder, the gears will appear in their palette next time
they run Sprog.

