=head1 NAME

sprog - options for invoking Sprog from the command line

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  sprog [options] [<filename.sprog>] [<filenames>]

Options:

  -?               detailed help about options
  --run     (-r)   start the machine running
  --nogui   (-n)   run in text mode without graphical user interface
  --quit    (-q)   quit when machine stops
  --version (-v)   print version number and exit

Usually you would simply invoke C<sprog> with no arguments or possibly just
the filename of a <.sprog> file.

=head1 OPTIONS

Most options can be used in the long form shown below (with two leading dashes)
or the short form shown in the synopsis above (one leading dash).

=over 4

=item -?

Display this detailed documentation about command-line options.  For more
detailed help about Sprog, see: L<Sprog::help::index>

=item --run

If the name of a Sprog machine file is provided, this option tells Sprog to
run the machine after loading it from the file.  If no filename was provided,
this option has no effect.

=item --nogui

If this option is specified, Sprog will run without a graphical user interface
(possibly useful for 'cron' jobs etc).

If you select 'nogui' mode, you must also specify the name of a C<.sprog> file
to load.  Enabling this mode will implicitly enable both C<--run> and
C<--quit>, so the machine will start running as soon as it is loaded and Sprog
will exit as soon as the machine is finished.

=item --quit

Causes Sprog to exit when the machine stops running.  It probably only makes
sense to use this option with C<--run> but you can specify it on it's own.
If no filename was provided, this option has no effect.

=item --version

If this option is specified, Sprog will print its version number to STDOUT and
then exit.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT 

Copyright 2004-2005 Grant McLean E<lt>grantm@cpan.orgE<gt>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself. 

=cut

