=head1 Using the Palette

The palette is place where you'll find gears to drag onto the workspace. 

=head2 Showing/hiding the Palette

You can show or hide the palette by:

=over 4

=item *

pressing the B<F9> key

=item *

using the palette button on the toolbar

=item *

using the view menu

=back

=head2 Filtering the Palette View

As your collection of gears grows, you may find that one long list of gears
becomes difficult to manage.  The solution is to filter the palette view to
show only the gears you want.

For example, if you're looking for an L<input gear|Sprog::help::input_gears>
use the drop-down menu labelled 'Connector In' and select 'None'.  This will
hide all gears that have an input connector and leave you with a list of gears
that can get data for themselves.

=head2 Searching for Gears

You can also use keyword searching to filter the view.  Simply type in a word
that's associated with the type of gear you're looking for and press the
B<Search> button (or the Enter key).

I<Note: the palette will only display gears that match your connector type
selections B<and> your search terms.  Set both the connector drop-downs to
'Any' to get the most matches in a search>.

=head2 Gears On the Palette

If you find a gear you want to include in your machine, simply drag it across
and drop it on the workspace.  You can drop a gear on top of an existing gear
in you machine.  If the connectors match, the new gear will snap into place 
below the one you dropped it on.

You can access the help page for a gear before you add it to the machine.
Either select the gear and press B<Shift-F1> or right-click on the gear and
select 'Help' from the pop-up menu.
